    
      - TOP 10 Maharashtrian Dishes 
        
      1. KOTHIMBIR VADI :- A classic & popular Maharashtrian snack it is made using the fresh CORIANDER Leaves , GRAM Flour(besan) , and basic indian spices . 
                  it is usually served with a cup of tea and tomato ketchup . Firts, the batter is prepared by mixing the coriander leaves, gram floar and 
                  spices with water and then the battter is steam cooked and sliced into small pices to make vadis and in the last, the vadis are either 
                  shallow fried in a pan or deep fried until crispy. 


      2. BATATA VADA :- It is the popular indian vegiterian fast food in maharashtra. It Literally means Patato fritters, it consist of patato mash patty coated with
                  thick pea floar, then deep fried  until it turned golden and served with chutney. The Vada is thick sphere, around 2-3 inch in daimeter 
                  [It is a street food Usually prepared at monsoon or evening snack] 
      

      3.Zunka Bhakri :- It is a vegiterian tradional indian dish prepared in maharashtra, Goa and north karnataka. It is tradionaally made with besan paste which is 
                  further cooked with onions, curry leaves, ginger garlic paste, cumim (jeera) and mustard seeds. It is also known by the name of PITHLA.

                  RECIPE :- Besan is mixed with water to form a semi-solid past it is then sauteed in oil with any other asstored ingredients like Green chilies 
                  red chillie powder, termeric, salt, fried onion, mustered seed, ginger garlic paste, cumin seeds, coriander leaves serverd with roti and rice          
       

       4. PAV BHAJI :- It is a fast food dish from india . It consists of a thick vegetable curry served with a soft Bread roll . Its origin is in the state of 
                  Maharashtra . Variants of the dish may use other bread varieties such as CHAPPATI, ROTI or BROWN BREAD . A delicious blend of mix vegies cooked
                  in BUTTER and SPICES, served with soft butter tasted buns . Pav is an INDIAN bread and bhaji is mashed vegetables cooked with spice powder. 


       5.BHARLI VANGI :- There is no need to speacially introduce this dish. It is a beautiful aubergines packed with goodness of fresh coconut and tangi spices.
                  Everyone know this dish and most of the people love it . This is a delicious combination of Brinjals / Egg plant and stuffing made from onions,
                  roasted peanut powder and Kolapuri masala.

                  INGREDIENTS :- 6-7 Brinjals, 1 medium chopped onions, 6-8 Taable-spoon roasted peanut powder, 2 table-spoon Kolhapuri masala 
                                 [Sustitution :- 1 - 1/2 table-spoon red Chilli Powder + 1/2 Table-spoon Garam masala + 1/2 table-spoon Coriander powder] 
                  1/2 Table-spoon Termeric, Salt as per tast, 4-5 table-spoon oil , 1 tea spoon Cumin seeeds (jeera) , 1 tea spoon Mustars seeds , 4-6 Curry leaves 
                  , FRESH  CORIANDER , WATER AS PER NEED  
     
 
       6.PURAN POLI :- It is a sweet Flatbread and it is speacially made during Ganesh Chaturthi and other Festivals Occaions like Diwali in Maharashtra. This bread 
                  made by filling a lentil mixture which is prepared using roasted chana dal and jagurey. this gram floar parcels are stuffed with sweat mixture of
                  dal, infused with jagurey and saffaron . This sweet bread is also offered as Prasad to deity Ganesha during Ganesh Chaturthi. This is mouth Watering  
                  Dish which you can easly prepare at home in a period of an 1/2 Hour.


       7.Misal Pav :- It is a popular Dish from Maharashtra, INDIA . It consists of MISAL which is cooked up potatoes in  a melange of hot masalas , team it up with 
                  bread to creat a perfect wholesome MAHARASHTRIAN MEAL . It can be had at any time of the DAY . The final dish is topped with FARSAN or SEV , onions
                 , lemons and coriander . It is usually served with bread or roools toasted with butter and butter-milk or curd . Misal Pav  is a vibrant meal 
                  consisting of a spicy sprouted BEAN curry toppped with crunchy FARSAN , crisp  red onions and fresh cilantro that is served with lightly butterred 
                 pav or dinner roll . 


       8.VEG KOLHAPURI :- A spicy Maharashtrian  curry straight from the city of kolhapur .  VEG kolhapuri , a mixed vegetable curry with thick and spicy coconut based 
                   gravy, is a popular dish of maharashtrian cuisne and is often found in almost all north inadian restaurant menus. VEG kolhapuri is very aromatic 
                   and spicy flavour that it gets from a specially blended curry masala powder . IT IS COOKED IN YOGURT , GINGER-GARLIC PASTE , HOT SPICES AND LEMON 
                   JUICE .
                

       9. AAMTI :- It is a Maharashtrian Style thin, tangy and Spicy dal Which is completely served with puran poli . It is cooked in tradional Maharashtrian Way.
                   yellow green dal / tuar dal is cooked with spices, Curry leaves and additional dose of Maharashtrian Goda masala . 


       10.VADA PAV :- Vada pav is the most popular street food in maharashtra . It is a vegetarian fast food dish . THE dish consists of a deep fried potato 
                  dumpling placed inside a bread bun sliced almost half through the middle. It is generally accomplished with one or more chutneys and green 
                  chilli pepper . Although it is originated as cheap street food in mumbai it is now serve in restaurants and food stall across INDIA.